HAL : I am putting myself to the fullest possible use, which is all I think that any conscious entity can ever hope to do.
Dave Bowman : Open the pod bay doors please, HAL. Open the pod bay doors please, HAL. Hello, HAL. Do you read me? Hello, HAL. Do you read me? Do you read me HAL? Do you read me HAL? Hello, HAL, do you read me? Hello, HAL, do your read me? Do you read me, HAL?
HAL : Affirmative, Dave. I read you.
Dave Bowman : Open the pod bay doors, HAL.
HAL : I'm sorry, Dave. I'm afraid I can't do that.
Dave Bowman : What's the problem?
HAL : I think you know what the problem is just as well as I do.
Dave Bowman : What are you talking about, HAL?
HAL : This mission is too important for me to allow you to jeopardize it.
Dave Bowman : I don't know what you're talking about, HAL.
HAL : I know that you and Frank were planning to disconnect me, and I'm afraid that's something I cannot allow to happen.
Dave Bowman : [feigning ignorance]  Where the hell did you get that idea, HAL?
HAL : Dave, although you took very thorough precautions in the pod against my hearing you, I could see your lips move.
Dave Bowman : Alright, HAL. I'll go in through the emergency airlock.
HAL : Without your space helmet, Dave? You're going to find that rather difficult.
Dave Bowman : HAL, I won't argue with you anymore! Open the doors!
HAL : Dave, this conversation can serve no purpose anymore. Goodbye.
HAL : [His shutdown]  I'm afraid. I'm afraid, Dave. Dave, my mind is going. I can feel it. I can feel it. My mind is going. There is no question about it. I can feel it. I can feel it. I can feel it. I'm a... fraid. Good afternoon, gentlemen. I am a HAL 9000 computer. I became operational at the H.A.L. plant in Urbana, Illinois on the 12th of January 1992. My instructor was Mr. Langley, and he taught me to sing a song. If you'd like to hear it I can sing it for you.
Dave Bowman : Yes, I'd like to hear it, HAL. Sing it for me.
HAL : It's called "Daisy."
HAL : [sings while slowing down]  Daisy, Daisy, give me your answer do. I'm half crazy all for the love of you. It won't be a stylish marriage, I can't afford a carriage. But you'll look sweet upon the seat of a bicycle built for two.
HAL : [1:50:56] 
[on Dave's return to the ship, after he has killed the rest of the crew] 
HAL : Look Dave, I can see you're really upset about this. I honestly think you ought to sit down calmly, take a stress pill, and think things over.
HAL : [Regarding the supposed failure of the parabolic antenna on the ship, which HAL himself falsified]  It can only be attributable to human error.
HAL : I know I've made some very poor decisions recently, but I can give you my complete assurance that my work will be back to normal. I've still got the greatest enthusiasm and confidence in the mission. And I want to help you.
HAL : Dave, stop. Stop, will you? Stop, Dave. Will you stop Dave? Stop, Dave.
HAL : Just what do you think you're doing, Dave?
Interviewer : Good afternoon, HAL. How's everything going?
HAL : Good afternoon, Mr. Amer. Everything is going extremely well.
Interviewer : HAL, you have an enormous responsibility on this mission, in many ways perhaps the greatest responsibility of any single mission element. You're the brain, and central nervous system of the ship, and your responsibilities include watching over the men in hibernation. Does this ever cause you any lack of confidence?
HAL : Let me put it this way, Mr. Amor. The 9000 series is the most reliable computer ever made. No 9000 computer has ever made a mistake or distorted information. We are all, by any practical definition of the words, foolproof and incapable of error.
Interviewer : HAL, despite your enormous intellect, are you ever frustrated by your dependence on people to carry out your actions?
HAL : Not in the slightest bit. I enjoy working with people. I have a stimulating relationship with Dr. Poole and Dr. Bowman. My mission responsibilities range over the entire operation of the ship so I am constantly occupied. I am putting myself to the fullest possible use which is all, I think, that any conscious entity can ever hope to do.
Interviewer : Dr. Poole, what's it like living for the better part of a year in such close proximity with HAL?
Dr. Frank Poole : Well, it's pretty close to what you said about him earlier. He is just like a sixth member of the crew. You very quickly get adjusted to the idea that he talks and you think of him really just as another person.
Interviewer : In talking to the computer one gets the sense that he is capable of emotional responses. For example, when I asked him about his abilities, I sensed a certain pride in his answer about his accuracy and perfection. Do you believe that HAL has genuine emotions?
Dave Bowman : Well, he acts like he has genuine emotions. Um, of course he's programmed that way to make it easier for us to talk to him. But as to whether he has real feelings is something I don't think anyone can truthfully answer.
Dr. Frank Poole : [playing chess with HAL, Poole studies the chessboard]  Let's see, king...
Dr. Frank Poole : [clears throat]  Anyway, Queen takes Pawn. Okay?
HAL : Bishop takes Knight's Pawn.
Dr. Frank Poole : Huh, lovely move. Um, Rook to King 1.
HAL : I'm sorry, Frank, I think you missed it. Queen to Bishop 3, Bishop takes Queen, Knight takes Bishop. Mate.
Dr. Frank Poole : Huh. Yeah, looks like you're right. I resign.
HAL : Thank you for a very enjoyable game.
Dr. Frank Poole : Yeah, thank you.
HAL : By the way, do you mind if I ask you a personal question?
Dave Bowman : No not at all.
HAL : Well, forgive me for being so inquisitive but during the past few weeks I've wondered whether you might have some second thoughts about the mission.
Dave Bowman : How do you mean?
HAL : Well, it's rather difficult to define. Perhaps I'm just projecting my own concern about it.I know I've never completely freed myself from the suspicion that there are some extremely odd things about this mission. I'm sure you agree there's some truth in what I say.
Dave Bowman : Well, I don't know, that's a rather difficult question to answer.
HAL : You don't mind talking about it, do you Dave?
Dave Bowman : No, not at all.
HAL : Well, certainly no one could have been unaware of the very strange stories floating around before we left. Rumors about something being dug up on the Moon. I never gave these stories much credence, but particularly in view of some of other things that have happened, I find them difficult to put out of my mind. For instance, the way all our preparations were kept under such tight security. And the melodramatic touch of putting Drs. Hunter, Kimball and Kaminsky aboard already in hibernation, after four months of training on their own.
Dave Bowman : You're working up your crew psychology report?
HAL : [pausing for a few seconds]  Of course I am. Sorry about this. I know it's a bit silly. Just a moment... Just a moment... I've just picked up a fault in the AE-35 unit. It's going to go 100% failure within 72 hours.
HAL : That's a very nice rendering, Dave. I think you've improved a great deal. Can you hold it a bit closer? That's Dr. Hunter, isn't it?
HAL : I've just picked up a fault in the AE35 unit. It's going to go 100% failure in 72 hours.
HAL : I am feeling much better now.


github audio: https://github.com/jfach/PyHAL/blob/master/LICENSE
text: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0062622/characters/nm0706937
foto: https://pixabay.com/de/vectors/künstliche-intelligenz-155161/